"Controlled Natural Languages (CNLs) can be considered as a balance
between the expressiveness of the natural languages and the need for a for-
mal representation that can be handled by a computer. A CNL is an engineered
subset of natural languages whose grammar and vocabulary have been restricted
in a systematic way in order to reduce both ambiguity and complexity of full
natural languages" (from the story generation below)

---yes 1: tax fraud

they used a tagged controlled dataset
tagging allows the system to report
the percentage of false positives or negatives

their cnl design:
- patterns between different years of assessment
- include (i) temporal notions (ii) mathematical expressions (iii) means of referring to aggregated values 
- language: filters (individuals, companies, etc.); time-based sets; conditions (checks to flag cases, combined using booleans); reports (idenitfy fields: eg. id, age, etc. using regular natural language)

evaluated by maltese irs (ird)

use standard runtime verification tool, Larva [CPS09], to process the data efficiently Rules take the form of: event | condition → action

--- no 2: Reasoning in Attempto Controlled English:
Non-monotonicity
- extended the Attempto Reasoner RACE by non-monotonic reasoning 
- they used prolog.

--- no 3: Bootstrapping a Runyankore CNL from an isiZulu CNL
bootstrapped using gf
agglutinated language

--- maybe yes 4: Statistically-Guided Controlled Language Authoring
use of contextual word prediction,
determining its potential to enhance controlled language authoring
potential of using in-domain contextual predictions to generate productive suggestions for the creation of acceptable controlled texts
*they have graphs*

---no 5: A Speech Interface to the PENGASP System

---yes 6: Asking Data in a Controlled Way with Ask Data Anything NQL
Ask Data Anything. a web application for interacting with data using
natural language queries and a server application for processing the natural
language query and executing it 
a UI together with a natural query interface
user can easily integrateontologies written using W3C standard technologies intothe system and use them to enhance the data
offers more than what presented in paper, for example: simple access to semantic
tagging, synonyms and other features given by the ontology
http://docs.cognitum.eu/AskDataAnything2015/

--- no 7: To What Extent Does Text Simplification Entail a More Optimized Comprehension in Human-Oriented CNLs?

psycholinguistic testing to optimize pilot comprehension

-- no but cool 8: Using CNL for Knowledge Elicitation and Exchange Across Story Generation Systems

(I'm summarising it because it's cool)

Gervás, a story generator algorithm 
Minstrel was a story generation system that told stories about King Arthur
and his Knights of the Round Table
Mexica was a computer model designed to generate short stories about
the early inhabitants of Mexico
StoryBricks

STellA (Story Telling Algorithm) is a story generation system that con-
trols and chooses states in a non-deterministically generated space of partial
stories until it finds a satisfactory simulation of events that is rendered as a
story.
Knowledge Representation in STellA
 snapshots and actions. Snapshots are states of the world.
Actions contain information about what led from the previous
state to the current one
story = {(s1 , [a1,1 , a1,2 , . . . , a1,n ]), . . . , (sz , [az,1 , az,2 , . . . , az,n )}

--- yes 9 Towards a High-Level Controlled Language for Legal Sources on the Semantic Web
hCL is designed to identify the overall semantic structures of the rule statements expressed in legal documents 
analysis and annotation of legal sources using structured anno-
tations, which is our high-level CL (hCL), on the source text. This hCL leaves
the source text in situ.

--- no 10 The Controlled Natural Language of Randall Munroe’s Thing Explainer
Randall Munroe’s Thing Explainer uses only the 1’000 most often used words of the English language together with drawn pictures to explain complicated things

*interesting:*
"This seems to point to a general problem of such languages with a heavily restricted vocabulary: Writers are forced to circumscribe existing concepts instead of naming them or to involve rough analogies, which can lead to a language that even less precise than full natural language.*

--- yes partly 11 Human-Robot Interaction in a Shopping Mall:
A CNL Approach

construct knowledge bases
representing general/specific static/dynamic knowledge about shopping
malls, to be used in conjunction with the CNLs. We show an application
of our framework with a humanoid robot.

specialized domains for human-robot interactions (e.g., in a shopping mall),
controlled natural languages (CNLs) can be used to eliminate those ambiguities
and allow sentences in a well-defined syntax

use Sparql. Sparql is a query language for querying ontologies in RDF or OWL. Every
Sparql query starts with a SELECT clause for specifying the variables and
continues with WHERE clause for specifying the properties of those. Obvi-
ously, it would be logical to use an outside tool for constructing these types
of queries as well.

*they have syntax trees*

-- yes 12 Multilingual Database Access in the Query Converter

software that provides natural language access to databases
qconv, Query Converter based on a cnl (yaql) used for sparql queries

-- no but cool 13 The Role of CNL and AMR in Scalable Abstractive Summarization for Multilingual Media Monitoring
summarized AMR graphs would have to be mapped to the abstract syntax trees
(AST) in GF 
they cannot do this yet

